# Life, The Universe, and Everything
### Things that I've just kinda decided to believe over the years that I've been on this Earth

### Preamble
So, I don't know why I'm writing this, except that I feel like I should have written it many years ago. I was at a Skrillex concert for my 27th birthday, and I had this thought, which I texted to myself because my old phone was too crappy to actually take notes and stuff. I can't find exactly what I wrote, but the general idea was that I felt my purpose in life was to write about... well, life. I remember the keywords "chaos", "alan watts", "slavoj žižek", and "george carlin" being in it.

I think what I was trying to tell myself was that I felt like I'd stumbled upon some fundamental Truths, and I've always believed that for me, it's not enough just to "do", I also need to "share". Fast forward over 5 years, and I only recently just started writing on my blog [Remote Curious](https://remotecurious.substack.com/). It has been a rewarding exercise to think of specific topics and try to convey them in a concice but enjoyable way. But in this moment I feel like I need to be doing more. I feel like I am like a mountaineering guide. My passion is to wander all over Life, but up until recently, I've been doing it solo. I was hoping that with my blog, I could take people along with me. But now I feel like I should instead just write about what I've found along the way.

I'm in a condo in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. It's March 20th, 2020 -- the Spring Equinox -- and most of the world is in lockdown. COVID-19, aka the novel coronavirus, has been spreading across the globe. In an effort to stem the pandemic, many countries have closed their borders and are requiring their citizens to be quarantined in their homes. Here in Mexico, it's a different situation. It's been business as usual this entire time. It makes you wonder -- what will it be like when the other shoe drops?

OK, let's just get this out of the way now: I've got some pretty strange beliefs. I have promised myself that I am going to do my best to convey them here. But I don't expect you to understand, let alone agree with, them. If you read something and decide I'm off my rocker, that's your perogative. For myself, though, I've had enough authentic experiences in my life that I know what I believe -- not what I would like to be true, but what I've actually lived through. I'm pretty grateful for that.

So one of the things that I believe is that we have the ability to have premonitions of the future. You can call it whatever you want -- gut instinct, intuition, fifth-dimension higher-self, the Holy Spirit. There's lots of words for it, but I believe they all are talking about the same thing. I'm going to use the word conscience, because I think it has enough context for most people to know what I'm talking about, but not too much context that it becomes a woo-woo word.


### Haz lo que debes
A few years ago, I got a tattoo on my left forearm that says "HAZ LO QUE DEBES". When people ask me what it means, I kinda pause for a second to decide how much I want to tell them. To some people I just say that it means "Do the right thing", which is close enough. Literally, it means "Do that which you should", but that last word "deber" has a very special context. There are two other phrases "Haz lo que tienes" and "Haz lo que quieres" which respectively mean "Do what you're told" and "Do what you want". The first is an external motivation from parents, society, authority, etc. The second is an internal motivation, but what Freud would have called the "id" -- our mortal desires, lusts, hungers, urges, etc. I often think of "tienes" and "quieres" as on a spectrum, where often individualistic societies are on the end of "do what you want", and collectivist societies are more on the side of "do what you're told".

But "haz lo que debes" is not on that spectrum. When I picture it, it's in a higher dimension, and therefore apart from the other two. The motivation there doesn't come from outside, nor really from inside -- it comes from our conscience. We've all been in a situation that we feel is "not right". Or on the flip side, where we feel it's "what we should do". This form of motivation and responsibility can be frustratingly difficult to follow. Many times, the things we know are right are not what we want to do, or are not what others are telling us to do. So to "haz lo que debes", we need to often stand up to both ourselves and others and do what we know is right even if it sucks.

I've personally found that the more we pay attention to that "still, small voice inside", the louder it gets. If I were to go a step further, I would say that one of the goals in life is to amplify it such that it becomes a driving force in our lives. In my experience, the times where I have done this -- from when I was eating vegan in NYC, doing drugs, and dropping out of society; to when I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and was following the Word of Wisdom, was keeping my Baptismal Covenenants, and was Temple-Worthy -- I've found that there is an incredibly profound sense of confidence when navigating life. This inner voice can help with something that seems as trivial as grabbing an item on your way out of the door that it turns out you need later that day; to trying to navigate difficult situations when the options seem confusing; to being led to opportunities to serve and help others.

In comparison, being out of touch with that voice sucks. Life feels more confusing. I second-guess myself more. I engage less with my fellow human beings. In otherwords, it's a pretty closed-off existance. The times when I've closed down like that, it's because I decide to stop listening to my conscience. At first maybe it's just one "little" thing like not asking that person if they need some help. Then later, it's something larger, like not doing something I know I should do. And as I pay less attention, the voice gets quieter, and quieter. I begin operating more from a place of "do what you want" or a "do what you think" rather than "do what you feel is right".

It's OK, though. Because that voice is always still there. Sometimes life is tough, and we get tired, and we just don't want to care for a while. That's fine. It's not "wrong" per se. I mean, it actually doesn't really *help* to go that route, because when we stop listening to ourselves, the hard things get harder. But I'm OK with the fact that I've gone for relatively long periods of my life ignoring my conscience. I mean, not like doing crimes and stuff. But just not doing what I know I should do. Sometimes that can manifest as binging Netflix when I know I should go to bed. Or eating junk-food when I know I should eat something with nutrients in it. Or not reaching out to someone who I feel like I should text to see how they're doing, because I'd rather focus on the fact that I'm not feeling so hot myself.

### Pastor Chris
Sometimes, though, when I've listened, I've had some crazy experiences. For example, 4-5 years ago, I was living in Southern Oregon, and got involved in homelessness issues -- from befriending people on the street, to volunteering at overnight shelters, to being on the steering committe of a tiny house village for homeless people. During that period in my life, I was introduced to a dude named Pastor Chris whose ministry was specifically towards the societal outcasts. He took a really neat approach and would try to help people get their lives together by starting a business. So maybe someone used to be in landscaping, well, he might invest in some equipment so the person could start mowing lawns again. Or maybe a copule people wanted to start a car detailing business, so he'd help them buy the initial supplies. Stuff like that.

We kept in touch maybe once a year or so, even after I moved to Alaska. One year, I donated my old car so some of the people he helped could get to work. Another year, I felt compelled to reach out, and ended up doing some monthly donations to help him cover the costs of opening a recreation center for some of the homeless kids in that town. But the craziest was one summer, I'd been working with a client who ended up forgetting to send a paycheck. When I got it, I realized that it was about 10% of what I'd made from that client so far. I really felt like I should donate it as a tithe (even though I wasn't a part of any church at that point). Pastor Chris' name immediately popped into my head. So I opened my online bank and was about to send a donation out of the blue. But I couldn't press send. Instead, I felt very prompted to give him a call.

When I called, he immediately answered. I cut straight the point. I said I had just gotten a check and felt very strongly like I was supposed to help him out, but I didn't know why. He started crying. He said that literally when his phone rang, he had been in the middle of praying about what he should do next. The ministry he was running had outgrown the one room space he'd been renting. There was another space nearby that the same landlord said he'd rent to him at a discount. But it meant more overhead, and he just didn't have the donations to justify it. Nor did he have the downpayment and security deposit to move in.

I asked him how much the downpayment and security deposit were. He said, no, it was too much. I said, well, you and I both feel very strongly like this call wasn't by accident, so, how much? He gave a range, and I felt like he was holding back, and I called him on it. I pointed out that he was being timid in the midst of what we both believed was the work of "God" (more on that term later). So, I said, go get on your computer, use a spreadsheet, and give me an actual number, and call me back. He called back shortly, and said that with the downpayment, security deposit, plus some moving expenses, he needed exactly $X to make this transition.

I laughed out loud. He started apologizing. He said he knew that it was ridiculous, and that he wasn't asking for that, he was just answering my question. I told him no, that wasn't it. It was that the number he'd quoted was exactly the amount on that "bonus" check that I'd received. Like, exactly. I deposited the check and wired him the money the next day. He opened his new space and for the first few months afterwards, I helped him cover the gap between what he'd been paying on the old space.

I wish this story had a happy ending, but it doesn't. Well, at least I don't know how it ended. After maybe six months or so, I had gone through a bunch of other life stuff, and was feeling anxious, and self-centered, and closed off. One day, I just stopped sending the payments. No warning, no notice, just stopped. I can't recall, because I think I've blocked it out some out of embarassment and shame, but I think he called me once and re-assured me that it was all good, and how much of a difference I'd made, and how much he appreciated me. But in my mind, I just felt guilty.

### On Guilt
I went and had a tarot reading today. It's maybe the third one I've had since I got to Playa 5 weeks ago? So maybe every other week or so. I really appreciate the person I go to see. She's from Argentina and speaks mostly in Spanish, with some English mixed in when I have an obvious look of incomprehension on my face. But I think that the language barrier actually works in my favour. She is able to express what she's feeling, and I'm able to understand what I'm feeling. I can't take her interpretation literally, because I literally can't interpret what she's saying. Instead, I fill in the gaps with thoughts from my subconscious, which in my opinion is the whole point of tarot anyway.

One card that's come up two sessions in a row is "culpa" aka "guilt". Today, it was in reference to my feelings of guilt for being OK in the midst of this pandemic. So many people are sick or have died; others have lost loved ones; and even without the illness, the quarantine has meant that people have lost their jobs, or have been stuck indoors, or face a lot of daunting prospecs. I on the otherhand am a healthy(ish) young person, living in a beautiful beach paradise, which has not implemented a quarrantine (whether they should, that's a different discussion). I have been working remotely for years, and am a software engineer, so am well paid. I recognize how many privleges upon privleges have helped me get to this point, and I'm insanely grateful for the many opportunities I have been afforded in life.

But for me, the flipside of gratitude is guilt. Instead of coming from a place of "Wow, I am so fortunate to have this life, thank you thank you thank you!", I find it so easy to slip into a "Wow, so many people have it so much harder, I don't deserve to have this life." The problem -- as Gabriela was helping me to see today during our tarot session -- is that when I am operating from a place of gratitude, when I help people it's in the mindset of "I have enough, I am grounded, I can help others and help us both feel even better". When I'm operating from a place of guilt, helping people becomes -- not something to add on to my already wonderful life -- but instead a way to cope with my feelings. It's the mindset of "I have too much, I feel anxious, I need to give it to others so that I don't feel bad."


### On Fear vs. Love
When I am trying to make a decision, sometimes instead of a "Pros" and "Cons" list, I make a quadrant with "Fear vs. Love" on one axis, and "Positive/Negative" on another. So the four quadrans would be "Fear-based reasons for doing this thing", "Fear-baesd reasons to *not* do this thing", "Love-based reasons for doing this thing", and "Love-based reasons to *not* do this thing". It's subtle, but there's a difference. I make some choices because I'm afraid of what will happen if I don't. Others, I decide to do because they will help me grow and learn. There's a big difference.

When I've told people that I believe that the opposite of "Love" isn't "Hate", but "Fear", I sometimes get some pushback. But I stick by it. Hate is really just an expression of Fear. I'd go even further and say that these two emotions are more than just human constructs -- I feel like they are the yin and yang of the universe. Some religions refer to a spiritual battle between "Good" and "Evil". But if I were to describe it, it'd be more of a struggle between "Love" and "Fear". And I don't personally feel like it's "out there" -- I feel like it's "in here", between our ears. Heaven and Hell are here in this life based entirely on our mindset. I think that Bill Hicks puts it best: 


> The world is like a ride in an amusement park. And when you choose to go on it you think it's real because that's how powerful our minds are. And the ride goes up and down and round and round. It has thrills and chills and it's very brightly colored and it's very loud and it's fun, for a while. Some people have been on the ride for a long time and they begin to question: "Is this real, or is this just a ride?" And other people have remembered, and they come back to us, they say: "Hey, don't worry, don't be afraid, ever, because this is just a ride." ... and we kill those people.
>
> Ha ha, "Shut him up. We have a lot invested in this ride. Shut him up. Look at my furrows of worry. Look at my big bank account and my family. This just has to be real." It's just a ride. But we always kill those good guys who try and tell us that, you ever notice that? And let the demons run amok. But it doesn't matter, because it's just a ride. And we can change it anytime we want. It's only a choice. No effort, no work, no job, no savings and money. A choice, right now, between fear and love. The eyes of fear want you to put bigger locks on your doors, buy guns, close yourself off. The eyes of love instead see all of us as ONE.
> 
> -- Bill Hicks, [It's Just a Ride](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lqv8Os-AdUo)

### Just a Ride
The concept that this life is "just a ride" can be seen all over pop culture. One of my favourite songs is "Just a Ride" by Jem:

> It's just a ride, it's just a ride
> No need to run, no need to hide
> It'll take you round and round
> Sometimes you're up
> Sometimes you're down
> It's just a ride, it's just a ride
> Don't be scared
> Don't hide your eyes
> It may feel so real inside
> But don't forget it's just a ride
> (But don't forget enjoy the ride)
>
> -- Jem, [Just a Ride](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vPeY7Mq3hC0)

But this concept that life is "just a ride" is thousands of years old. Religions like Hinduism and Buddhism (as far as I undertand anyway) talk about us being part of the Self with a capital S -- the ultimate ground of being, the universe, collective consciousness, God, whatever you want to call it. But we each around as self with a lower-case s -- our particular, individual ego consciousness. And the whole point of us having these experiences is to A) appreciate existance in all is grandeur; and B) to learn & grow as spiritual beings.

Whenever I lose sight of this perspective, I like to listen to some lectures by [Alan Watts](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=alan+watts). I first was introduced to him with (and highly recommend reading) his ["The Book: On the Taboo of Knowing Who You are"](https://www.beezone.com/alanwatts/taboobook/the_book_chap_1.html). I found that 10 years ago during my NYC hippy days, and it literally changed my life. It was a new way of seeing myself and my place in this world.

The metaphor that sticks out most to me is that of a droplet of water on a wave. Before the wave comes along, the water is a part of a vast and inter-connected ocean. No water molecule stands out more than any other. But then this energy comes along, and raises some of the molecules up above the rest of the ocean. As the wave crests, a single droplet might separate from the wave and be suspended in the air. Life is that moment where we, as water droplets, are floating in air. We have this brief opportunity to look around and appreciate the beauty of all of existance. However, we see that this moment is fleeting -- that we will soon drop down and become part of the ocean. But since we forget that we came from the ocean to begin with, we are afraid. We think of it as losing our droplet-ness, instead of gaining our ocean-ness.

### On Death
I think that during these last few weeks and months, every person in the world has given a lot more thought to death than they usually would. It's not often in the front of our minds; but constantly seeing numbers on a television screen has a way of reminding us of our own mortality.

I have come to peace with not knowing how this whole pandemic will end. I may get sick. I may need to be hospitalized. I may die. But my new phrase is: "It'll all be okay, even if it isn't". As in, no matter how the future plays out, it will be what it will be -- qué será, será. I'm no expert on Daoism, but my understanding that no matter how things are right now, they are part of The Way -- as in, the way that things are supposed to be. Judeo-Christianity has this same concept when people say that "Everythig has a reason" or "It's God's Will". This is an incredible coping mechanism during periods of uncertainty. There's no need to fear the outcome; rather, we should just accept things as they are, explicitly because they are how they are. Re-reading that sentence, I'm not sure if I expressed it well. But in other words, if we were to wish that things were different, then we would suffer -- because we cannot change the past. So rather than suffer, we can find peace in accepting things the way they are.

All that to say, I'm not afraid of Death. I may be afraid of Dying -- i.e., the time leading up to Death, whether that be seconds or weeks or years. Funnily enough, it's the fear of being in pain during the process of dying that causes me the most anxiety. I feel like whatever is on the other side of this mortal veil is either a) a super positive, wonderful thing or b) nothingness. I don't believe there is an option c) of terrible suffering. As I'd mentioned before, I think this life has enough suffering as is when we're in a bad mental place.

Besides, I feel like I've led a good, long life. In fact, writing this is the last thing that I feel like I need to do. If I were to die tonight, I honestly would not regret it. I'm in no way saying that I have a death wish. Heck no. I've got lots of things I'd love to continue doing. This world has an endless amount of places to explore, people to know, and things to learn. And neither do I mean that I don't have regrets in life -- oh jeez, do I, mostly about friends, family, & partners that I've hurt through my own selfishness.

### On Regret
According to [16 Personalities](https://www.16personalities.com/), that whether you are [Assertive vs. Turbulent](https://www.16personalities.com/articles/identity-assertive-vs-turbulent) defines whether you say "Lesson learned, now move on" vs. "I should keep replaying past experiences to see what new things I can learn from them". Neither one is right or wrong. It's just a personality type. I happen to be the latter. And boy oh boy, my brain apparently really likes bringing up all the times in my past that I have wronged others. I guess maybe it's like a dog who nudges you because they want your attention -- maybe I should be reaching out to right these wrongs. That, or just work through them and let them go. But regret is something with which I'm intimately familiar.

At one point in my life (after my divorce, but before I'd worked through the emotions surrounding my divorce), I wrote that I don't have any regrests, because all of my choices have led me to where I am today, and I wouldn't change anything. Well, the latter half of that is true, of course -- not only wouldn't I change anything, but I can't. However, that doesn't mean that I don't regret some of the things I've said & done -- or not said & not done. I don't regret these for my own self -- I only regret the times where I've negatively impacted others. It's the hurt that I've spread to those I love which I wish I could take back.

"Hurt people hurt people" is such a popular song title that when searching for the one I wanted to listen to, I couldn't find it out of the dozens of other songs. But it's so vital to internalize that concept. The reason we lash out is because we're feeling hurt. But we just pass on that hurt to the other person. Who, if they don't think about it, pass it on to someone else. Fear is like a virus. But Love is contageous, too. Doing something nice for someone can completely change their view of the world. It can snap them out of themselves and help them be present and engaged with the world & fellow humans around them. At which point they are more likely to help out other people, ad infinitum.

-----

### Premonition

So I'm not going to lie. My main motivation for writing this is that I've felt for the past few years that I was gonna end up in the hospital for a prolonged illness -- perhaps cancer, perhaps something else. But metaphorically a representation of these thoughts and beliefs which I've kept inside and need to get out. If I am successful in writing them, then I will survive; if I don't, I won't. I realize as I'm typing this how crazy it sounds.

I took part in a fire ceremony in Peru many years ago where I had my future read by watching leaves thrown into a bonfire. What I came away with is that my life is going to be short and relatively meaningless. I know that describes many people's lives. But I feel like it hits home -- I have done a lot of things in my life, but have never really made any difference in this world. I've not really made an impact. There have been people whose lives I have touched to some degree. But there are also people whose lives I have hurt pretty severely. I feel like they sorta cancel out.

Anyway, I feel like that time is upon me, now. A couple weeks ago I had the realization that this was it. If I were to make a wager, I feel like I'm going to get coronavirus, but that's not the important part. Having it will lead to an x-ray of my chest, which is going to reveal a growth. I don't know what happens after that, except that I will have the opportunity to sit in one place for a few weeks and be able to type this. Maybe that's what this time is right now. I don't really know.

My phrase recently has been "It'll all be OK, even if it isn't." By that I mean, that no matter how all this turns out -- and whether I survive or not -- it's alright; it's how things should be. I don't want to die, but if I do, I feel like I've lived a long life in my 33 years.

I've been married and divorced; I got to experience being a (step-) dad. Being an uncle. I've found someone who felt like home, and then pushed them away. I've learned about lots of parts of myself that I'm not proud of. I've dug through some of my past repressed memories. I've pushed myself outside my comfort zone. I've followed my intuition. I've bartended at a hostel in Machu Picchu, Peru. I've worked on an organic farm in Southern Oregon. I've handled for a dog musher in Alaska. I'm sitting out this COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico. I've learned a lot about this world and how it works. I've met a lot of people, and (at least attempted to) learn how they work. I've learned to let go of future outcomes.

Row, row, row your boat
Gently down the stream
Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily
Life is but a dream

-----





-----

### Random
This song just came on Spotify. It's one that my ex-wife and I used to listen to during a very special period in our marriage:  "I do believe it's true that there are roads left in both of our shoes, but if the silence takes you then I hope it takes me too. So brown-eyes I'll hold you near because you're the only song I want to hear -- a melody softly soaring through my atmosphere."


